All right so now we've seen the basic structure of a Web site we're going to create one for ourselves.
So let's close down these examples and go back over to our hollow world.
Now we don't want to call this Halliwell's anymore because we want to create a new file.
So I'm going to use file and then save as and I'm going to call it my web page.
You can call it whatever you like but I'm going to go for something nice and straightforward like that.
Now very quick challenge for you.
Can you make my web page appear in your browser.
Go for it.
I hope you manage that.
All he needed to do was go back to your desktop.
Open up the complete web developer course go to Chapter 1 HD DML and then double click on my web page
and there it is.
Of course the actual content is the same as what we had before.
But we'll change that very soon.
So let's close that down and we'll close the Hello World tab as well because we don't need that anymore.
So just to be absolutely sure that we're editing the right file here let's get rid of.
Hello Rob.
And then during the text you just hi.
And then second mini challenge can you make the word Hi there.
So make your mark appear on your browser.
I hope you manage that.
You just need to save in brackets or your text editor and then refresh this page here.
So I used a command or control as to save and then either click the error or command or on a Mac or
five on a PC.
Right.
So now we know that we're working with our right documents.
Let's create an HMO file that looks roughly like the example that we had on example dot com.
Now I'm actually going to start with our l tag.
So I noticed that my text editor here nicely predicts what I want to say which is really really handy.
So I'm going to select HVM l there and then end the tag and what the text editor also does is creates
an end tag for me because it knows that whenever I need a starting tag I also need an ending tag.
So that's fantastic.
I'll just put a few enters in between those two to give me a nice gap to work with.
Great.
Notice I haven't put the doctype at the top there like we had an example of chrome.
It's not strictly necessary but feel free to add it in if you want to.
It definitely won't do any harm.
Now can you remember the next section that comes in.
A h t m l documents.
It is of course the head.
Now notice that I've indented the head that I've done that by pressing the tab button and that just
allows everything to look a little bit nicer and you can then see very quickly that anything that's
been indented here is inside the head section doesn't look right now maybe but when we add a fair bit
of code it will become clear that indenting makes your code look a lot prettier and much much easier
to read then do you remember the next section that we had after the head comes the body.
So let's end our body tag and then we get our closing buddy tag created automatically for us.
And now we've got the basic structure of our Web page.
So good aged him L and then closing HVM L head closing head and body glazing body.
Fantastic.
What do you think that will look like if we try and actually see it.
I've saved it here and now I'm going to refresh.
It's actually completely empty because we don't have any content here.
So very quick challenge.
Can you add some content which will then appear on this page.
Go for it.
I hope you added the content inside the body section.
So I'm going to indent
my text again using tab and then I'm going to save that and refresh there.
My first web page.
Fantastic.
Notice that I haven't used paragraph tags then.
If you did use paragraph tags then Welden but they're not.
Again strictly necessary it will work without them but we'll definitely use them.
Once we're comfortable with them later on and then my final mini challenge for you is to add a title
to the page.
Can you remember from the last video.
How we do that.
You got it.
It's inside the head section and we just use the tag title like that.
And then we can have whatever title we want.
I'll just call it my web page.
There we go.
And then we'll save that and refresh and you can see the content hasn't actually changed at all.
But up here in the tab we can now see my web page and that's as far as we're going to go from now.
Other than a little bit of tidying up just so we're not arbitrarily putting in spaces and there we go.
Notice I haven't got the extra metal tags there.
You're very welcome to put them in but I'm going to keep things simple.
They're not absolutely necessary and at this point they don't really add anything to our Web page so
I'm just going to keep what we absolutely need and nothing else.
So there we go.
Your first complete web page.
Congratulations in the next video we'll see how we can add a little bit of styling to our page by using
something that we saw in example dot com.
The header tag.